Removed redundancy from the rdm split chapters (#984)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/content/rdm/fairprinciples.md

The FAIR guiding principles for scientific data management and stewardship {% cite Wilkinson2016fair %} have been
developed as guidelines to improve the findability, accessibility, interoperability and re-usability of digital assets;

> all of which will support research reproducibility. Importantly, the FAIR principles not only improve the reusability of data by humans, but also allow machines to automatically find and use digital objects.

Author: ```suggestion
all of which will support research reproducibility. 
Even though the FAIR principles have been defined to allow machines to automatically find and use digital objects, they improve the reusability of data by humans as well.
```

> all of which will support research reproducibility. Importantly, the FAIR principles not only improve the reusability of data by humans, but also allow machines to automatically find and use digital objects.

Author: ```suggestion
all of which will support research reproducibility. 
Even though FAIR principles have been defined to allow machines to automatically find and use digital objects, they improve the reusability of data by humans as well.
```

> all of which will support research reproducibility. Importantly, the FAIR principles not only improve the reusability of data by humans, but also allow machines to automatically find and use digital objects.

Author: I reversed that statement to make it other way around.

The FAIR principles refer to three types of entities: data (as any digital object), metadata (information about that
digital object), and infrastructure (such as software, repositories). For instance, the findability principle F4 defines
that both metadata and data are registered or indexed in a searchable resource (for example, a data repository).

> For example, the FAIR principles are also being applied to [software](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7449239.v2), and projects where the data and software are both FAIR the research is more likely to be reproducible.

Reviewer: Alternative (more recent) reference: https://dx.doi.org/10.3233/DS-190026

Author: Thank you for pointing that. I have updated the links now.

> For example, the FAIR principles are also being applied to [software](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7449239.v2), and projects where the data and software are both FAIR the research is more likely to be reproducible.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, the FAIR principles are also being applied to [software](https://dx.doi.org/10.3233/DS-190026), and projects, where the data and software are both FAIR the research, is more likely to be reproducible.
```

> For example, the FAIR principles are also being applied to [software](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.7449239.v2), and projects where the data and software are both FAIR the research is more likely to be reproducible.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, the FAIR principles are also being applied to [software]((https://dx.doi.org/10.3233/DS-190026)), and projects, where the data and software are both FAIR the research, is more likely to be reproducible.
```

building on them to define a common set of common assessment criteria for the evaluation of FAIRness.

## Metadata and identifiers - community standards

Metadata (to describe and report the data) and unique persistent identifiers (to cite and reference data) are the two
pillars of the FAIR principles.
The use of community-defined standards for metadata and identified is vital for high-quality, reproducible research and for the integrative analysis and comparison of heterogeneous data from multiple sources, domains and disciplines.
Although also in this areas there is a lot of work in progress, and especially metadata standards are disciplines specific, or specific to a given digital object, you need to know what these are and which one are relevant to your data type in order to mention them in your DMP and use them.

You can use [FAIRsharing](https://fairsharing.org) as a lookup resource to identify and cite the metadata and/or
identifier schemas, databases or repositories that exist for your data and discipline,
for example, when creating a data management plan for a grant proposal or funded project;

> or when submitting a manuscript to a journal, to identify the recommended databases and repositories, as well as the standards they implement to ensure all relevant information about the data is collected at the source. FAIRsharing also operates under GOFAIR and the RDA,

Author: You are right. They don't operate under, but in alignment with these initiatives.

> or when submitting a manuscript to a journal, to identify the recommended databases and repositories, as well as the standards they implement to ensure all relevant information about the data is collected at the source. FAIRsharing also operates under GOFAIR and the RDA,

Author: ```suggestion
or when submitting a manuscript to a journal, to identify the recommended databases and repositories, as well as the standards they implement to ensure all relevant information about the data is collected at the source. 
FAIRsharing also operates in alignment with GO FAIR and the RDA,
```
